---
layout: default
title: Web accessibility
date: 2015-10-5
modal-id: 10005
category: blog
---

**October 5, 2015**


#####**Overview**

Designing rich Internet applications for accessibility is critically important to those with visual impairment. It’s something that can be done at least to some degree for almost every web site, but unfortunately it is still not done enough. That’s partly because actual data on screen reader usage is difficult to establish and partly because it takes extra time, knowledge and money to design and build websites with accessibility in mind.

#####**WAI and ARIA specification**

However, there are many tools, initiatives and businesses out there to make it easier for designers and developers to craft these applications. At the forefront of these are the W3C’s <a href="http://www.w3.org/WAI/">Web Accessibility Initiative</a> and the <a href="http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/aria.php">ARIA specification</a> (for Accessible Rich Internet Applications) to help make web apps more available to people who rely on screen readers and magnifiers to access information and services over the Internet.

ARIA accomplishes this among other things, by furnishing additional semantics and structure to help developers describe the role, state and function of different parts of their web pages and user interface. Having said that, it should be noted that these roles and the aria prefix are not part of the HTML4 spec. This means they are not supported by some of the older browsers and will not pass HTML4 validation. For these reasons, it is suggested that we implement ARIA compliance in JavaScript versus adding it directly to our HTML.

#####**Conclusion**

Fortunately, ARIA support is already built into many popular JavaScript toolkits to make this easier. There are also several free screen readers (including VoiceOver for OSX and Narrator for Windows) to perform our own testing, as well as ARIA inspecting/debugging tools to help test for compliance and usability. In conclusion, I would like to reinforce the value of acknowledging and understanding the web accessibility issue with the use of at least some of the tools and options that are out there to address it. The W3C’s WAI and ARIA specification are great places to start.