---
layout: blogpost
title: Ruby on Rails
date: 2015-11-02
modal-id: 10010
category: blog
---

**November 02, 2015**


#####**Overview**



Ruby on Rails (also called RoR, or Rails) is a full stack web development framework that was created and released as a Ruby software library called a RubyGem (or gem) by <a href = "http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/">David Heinemeier Hansson</a> under an MIT open source license in 2004.

Over the past 11 years, Rails has gained a considerable following among developers, startups, and large enterprise for being an easy to use and reliable platform that advocates trust, efficiency, and economy over novel or unique solutions.

#####**Omakase**

The Rails community encourages the Japanese notion of omakase which means “respectfully leaving another to decide what is best.” When ordering Omakase one trusts in the chef’s knowledge and expertise, awareness of the finest ingredients, and how they combine to deliver the best experience.

In Rails, Heinemeier Hansson <a href = "http://david.heinemeierhansson.com/2012/rails-is-omakase.html">once wrote</a>, “A team of chefs picked out the ingredients, designed the APIs, and arranged the order of consumption on your behalf according to their idea of what would make for a tasty full-stack framework…. When we, or in some cases I — as the head chef of the omakase experience that is Rails — decide to include a dish, it’s usually based on our distilled tastes and preferences. I’ve worked in this establishment for a decade. I’ve poured well in the excess of ten thousand hours into Rails. This doesn’t make my tastes right for you, but it certainly means that they’re well formed.”

#####**Convention over configuration**

Like omakase, Convention over Configuration (or CoC) is another philosophy espoused by the Rails community in which a set of conventions (or rules) simplify development by minimizing the need for complex configuration files. In this case, the experienced Rails community is presumed to know best and the use of default settings and scaffolding (code generation) are strongly encouraged. This makes code setup, management and collaboration easier because so many people already know these conventions.

#####**Don't repeat yourself**

One more credo of the Rails community is DRY which stands for “Don’t Repeat Yourself.” This concept is well understood by developers and it's generally thought of in terms of code. However, Rails takes this one step further by including the development process as well. For example, automated testing is favored over manual testing, and the use of conventions and recipes are encouraged over novel and unique solutions.

#####**MVC architecture**

The Model-View-Controller (MVC) architecture is a software design pattern for implementing data driven user interfaces and it's a key element of Rails. In MVC, models store and represent the data. Views handle the presentation layer (commonly via HTML, CSS and JavaScript), and controllers manage the interaction between Models and Views.

This structure separates the data, logic, and display layers of an application reducing code complexity, improving development efficiencies (front and back-end developers can work in parallel), and increasing reusability.

#####**Conclusion**

I hope this high level primer has captured your interest to learn a bit more about Rails and I encourage you to check out the official website at <a href = "http://rubyonrails.org/">rubyonrails.org</a>.
