---
layout: blogpost
title: Change Management
date: 2015-09-14
modal-id: 10001
category: blog
---

**September 14, 2015**


#####**Version control**
Using version control is a way of developing something iteratively and working with a safety net that allows the maker to back up in their creative process. Even better, social version control allows two or more people to participate and play different roles on the same project without inadvertently stepping on each other's work. There are many different software products and services available to facilitate version control and all of them provide the ability to undo changes by going back and forth over time. Of course, they also do much more than that.

Anyone who has used a word processor to develop a large document can appreciate the value of version control. For example, by creating and saving multiple files (lifestory001, lifestory002 and so on) we're giving ourselves a basic safety net. We can always back up to a previous version. But what if you haven't saved in a while and you don't need to go back quite that far? Fortunately, we can also "undo" or step through smaller changes that we have made since the last time we saved our file. These are rudimentary forms of version control.

Imagine that you are working with other people on the same document. You might want to have everyone provide their input separately and then merge those files together, but you may prefer to enable a feature called "Change Tracking" instead. This document collaboration feature uses color and text to indicate (a) where changes have been made, (b) who made those changes, (c) when they were made, and optionally (d) why they were made. By "Tracking Changes", everyone can read multiple versions of each other's input and view each other's comments. This makes it easier to produce the best possible product.

Modern Version Control Systems (VCS) are software tools that combine the benefits of saving multiple changes, managing undos, and tracking/consolidating changes from different team members - on steroids. Importantly, These systems also enable users to easily fork projects or take them in different directions. While desktop software can provide some of these features for individual files, VCS does the same thing and more across multiple files, directories and subdirectories.

#####**Git is a Version Control System**

Now that you're familiar with version control, let's be a little more specific and talk about git, one of the most popular VCS products in use today. Git was originally developed by Linus Torvalds and we'll be using it to keep track of changes we make on projects at Dev Bootcamp.

Git helps us manage our changes by running locally on our individual computers. We tell it the branch (feature) we're working on, what to track (add), and when to take each snapshot of our changes (commit). We also include comments with these snapshot so our history and progress are easy to navigate. All of this is maintained for each project in an invisible directory on our hard drives called a repository (repo).

#####**We share and collaborate on GitHub**

While git can be run on its own, we also use the valuable Internet service GitHub to share and collaborate on our git repositories. We use GitHub to maintain copies of each repo including all of our snapshots (commits), branches and comments. This is helpful for several reasons. First, by maintaining a remote copy of our repos we are guarding against their potential loss in the event that our own copies fail for any reason. Second, we are making the content of our repos and the branches we develop available for evaluation/comment and collaborative (or derivative) work. Finally, I expect to learn a great deal (and hope to eventually contribute something meaningful) through my participation in the worldwide developer community on GitHub.